A functional interface is nothing more than an interface that defines one and only one abstract method,
its behavior is generally knowable by its name.
There's no required keyword or annotation, but an annotation declaring your intention is recommended.
We'll be reviewing annotations later in this course.
But in addition, functional interfaces are often suffixed with Abu Subminimum.
It looks something like the following interface doable.
And we can actually Brice's within that void do something parentheses and a semicolon.
So a functional interface has no other requirements, it can be public, private package, private or
protected, it can be nested in another type.
It can contain private static and default methods.
It can extend other interfaces.
It can be extended by other interfaces.
So let's sounds easy enough, but let's explore some interfaces in code and see if we can make it up
a bit so we need to create a new project.
He can say, I've done that.
I've called this one Lambda Expressions.
We need a new class in this project.
I'm going to call this one functional interface.
All right, so that's the code.
So the code of pasted in consists of a package, private interface double.
You can see there with a single abstract method, you can say that method to do it.
This meets the criteria for a functional interface.
Now we've got the functional interface class, which contains a private interface shippable with a single
abstract method.
Shapard This meets the criteria for a functional interface also moving into the main method.
Both got two other static methods here.
Each of these takes a parameter of one of the interface types allowing us to test passing an object,
implementing these interfaces to methods which execute a single method.
You go back up to our main method.
This is creating two anonymous classes, one for each interface, they say what we're doing there,
effectively, we're executing the DeWit method and the Shapard method directly from the instances of
the anonymous classes.
We're also passing a lambda expression to methods which execute the functions.
They should already be familiar with lambda expressions, but I'll be reviewing them a lot more in the
next video.
But I want to use them here just to test functional interfaces.
Also passing the instances of the anonymous classes to methods which in turn invoke the single methods.
You can see all the code there.
So let's stop all running this.
And there's the airport at the bottom of the screen, this process here, right?
All right.
So let's move on.
I'm going to do.
Let's go down to the bottom of the source code and his file.
I'm going to add an interface to the source file and obviously it's not nested that this interface doesn't
really look like it's a functional interface because it doesn't clear any methods at all.
So what I want to do now is go back up to our main method.
And if at the lambda expression for doable.
Then you could say that we set that up there alone, 30 to replace that code there, including the comment
with his code.
So basically, the lambrix persons assigned to an extended doable local variable, and of course, that's
the interface we only just pasted in at the bottom of the code.
Now, if we run this again.
The result is the same output as before, so that confirms that the extended dubal interface is a functional
interface that's been done here again.
Otherwise, the Lambro expression wouldn't be valid.
So a functional interface can have no abstract methods in its body if it extends another interface,
which is a functional interface.
Of course, here we are extending doable, which did have that abstract method.
Let's go ahead here and actually add a method definition for our extended dual interface.
Boyd, of course, when extended to it.
And when I've done that.
So I can see what's happened there, but may actually naming method in extendible dubal the interface
to extend it to it, it introduced a compiler on the lambda expression declared in the main method of
the functional interface class.
So in this instance, we just hover over that.
We're not overriding abstract methods found in interface extendable.
So what's happened here is I have an interface with a single abstract method that's not considered a
functional interface.
The reality is we got to have a look again.
We've got our extended double interface, which has a method void extended to it, but remembering it's
also inheriting from doable and doable.
It's got its own method to it as well.
So effectively, we've got two abstract methods which doesn't fulfill the requirements for a functional
device, hence the error.
We go back down here, if I just change, extend it, do it to do it again so that we're effectively
overriding that method, things work as I should.
The compiler errors disappeared because I run the code and it works.
Right, so that's good.
So let's try something else, though, let's try implementing the Duart method in extended Dorval interface.
I'm going to paste in an implementation of the method.
You say it's the default method of defy their default, do it, and we've got a simple print out there
so it is allowable to add a default method.
But again, I've introduced the compiler error on the lander expression.
Their target method failed.
That's permissible to override an abstract method with the default method, but doing so without introducing
another abstract method into the interface, disqualifiers this interface as a functional interface.
So to get this working again, what we need to do is come down here and add another method to our extended
do it again to avoid extended do it parentheses and semicolon.
And you can see the error, the disappeared.
There's no more compiler errors if we run it now.
We've now got to do it with Dubow method executing do it.
We've got the message there relighting.
To a do it method in its territorial endophytes, Senator, although we passed an extended double lambda
expression to the do it with doable method to do it with doable method, executed the default method,
do it and not the code in the lambda expression, go back up to our main interface.
My method, rather.
You can see the output, there was Lambro expression, if I can do it, but in fact, we've got a default
method implemented, do it, outputting the apple pie and confirming that to do it with doable method,
executed the default method.
Do it on our interface.
A lot, 77.
Let's try something else.
What are the methods that we've gone down to replace the method up here, do it with doable a lot 60
to just replace that.
With this code.
They can see what's happening there.
It's testing the type of object path to do it with doable if it implements extended doable, it's executing
the abstract method, using the body of the lambda expression.
That's the code we can see what the airports come back.
I can see that that's changed an obviously overriding and abstract method with a default method must
be done with care or the client code will be impacted negatively.
So we've demonstrated here so you could see its impact on a functional interface, the exam will ask
you to recognize functional interfaces and what seems straightforward is not always that.
Let's look at a few more examples before we end the video.
So let's start the changes with a change to our extended doable interface.
I'm going to change that.
As follows, you say it now includes comparable in the extents clause and has no methods of its own.
Introduced a compiler error, if we check it out.
But will not overriding abstract methods found in interface extended double.
So what's happened here?
We'll go back and look at the interface again.
Extended to war was no longer a functional interface because it now inherits two abstract methods.
But and do that.
Now back to work and code, obviously, that will work.
So it's a recap when looking at an exam question, review the hierarchy of the interface tree, tracking
all abstract methods, remembering the following one, it can override an abstract method on an interface
with a default method to you cannot override an abstract method on an interface with a static method.
And three, you cannot override an abstract method with a private method because you're assigning weaker
privileges.
All abstract methods are an interface, are public.
But so moving on, now that I've reviewed how to recognize a functional interface will be focusing on
using them in the next video to support the use of lambda expressions.
See you in the next video.